The model combined a CNN (DenseNet201) with an RNN (Bi-LSTM) and uses MHSA and a custom transformer to enhance precision and accuracy.  We conducted our experiments utilizing publicly accessible datasets, including the public datasets UCF-Crime  , UBI Fight   and custom-developed Road Anomaly Detection (RAD) dataset . When compared to current state-of-the-art techniques, the suggested system performs exceptionally well. Its potential effectiveness in practical surveillance applications. The contributions of this study are the following.
•	Our research introduces the Bidirectional Motion Temporal (BiMT) model, a novel approach for anomaly detection in video data. The BiMT framework excels at integrating spatial and temporal information, effectively addressing the limitations of prior methods in this domain.
•	In the first phase, we employ pre-trained CNN models like DenseNet201 to obtain the best feature vectors from video frames. This process facilitates a comprehensive investigation of the spatial features in the footage, laying a solid foundation for more advanced analysis. 
•	Next phase Recurrent Neural Network(RNN) deep learning model Bidirectional Long Short-Term Memory (BiLSTM) and Multi-Head Self-Attention (MHSA) allow for the detection of short-term frame correlations. In addition, creating a custom transformer encoder with relative positional embedding improves the detection of anomalies and recognizes long-range frame dependencies. Furthermore, Categorical Focal Loss (CFL) is used during training to prioritize essential features for further enhancing the model's precision.
•	The creation of Road Anomaly Detection (RAD), a new dataset consisting of images and videos of anomalies performed on streets, roads, and highways recorded. RAD is a labeled dataset for supervised and semi-supervised machine learning algorithms. 

